---
title: "Bonding Based Technique for message forwarding in Social Opportunistic Network"
collection: publications
permalink: /publication/2019/03/09/bbft
excerpt: 'In this paper, a Bonding based forwarding technique proposes which is finding direct and
indirect bonding among nodes by exploiting contact information and social pattern.'
date: 2019-03-09
venue: 'SCPE'
paperurl: 'https://www.scpe.org/index.php/scpe/article/view/1469'
citation: 'Nigam R, Sharma DK, Jain S, Gupta S, Ghosh S. Bonding Based Technique for message forwarding in Social Opportunistic Network. Scalable Computing: Practice and Experience. 2019 Mar 9;20(1):1-5.'
---
**Abstract.** Integrating social networks properties such as centrality, tie strength, etc. into message forwarding protocols in
opportunistic networks has grown into a vital major benchmark. The opportunistic network is a demanding network with no set
route to travel a message from the source to the destination. During these networks, nodes use possibilities gained based on storecarry-forward patterns to forward communications. Every node that obtains a message when it encounters another node makes
selection concerning the forwarding or not necessarily transmitting the message came across. Most of these message forwarding
protocols use the benefit of social properties information like contact information and social relationship enclosed by the nodes
in the Social Opportunistic Network. In this paper, a Bonding based forwarding technique proposes which is finding direct and
indirect bonding among nodes by exploiting contact information and social pattern. In the proposed protocol, we also focus on
indirect bonding by finding weakest direct bonded nodes and then replace it with strong indirect bonded nodes of the network.
In this work, the balance between transmission delay and network traffic consider by using shortest path map based mobility
model. ONE simulator use for simulation and performance of the proposed protocol compare contrary popular approaches for
instance Epidemic, PRoPHET, BubbleRap, and Interaction based when using the shortest path map based mobility model. The
Bonding based forwarding technique performs adequately well concerning the number of messages delivered, overhead ratio, message
dropping and average latency.
